hi i'm jeff galloway us olympian and i'm
very proud to be a part of the Warsaw
half marathon I'll actually be visiting
Warsaw for the event on the twenty-ninth
of March and I'm very pleased to be
providing for you a training program
this training program has worked
successfully for well over a hundred
thousand people in training for a half
marathon or a marathon and I'm sure that
it will work for you if you will just
spend the time to learn the principles
of it which I'll say a few things about
first of all the long runs are the major
issue in the program and you want the
long runs to be run very very slowly so
how slowly is that well you don't want
to huff and puff at any point in your
run but on the website is are some
guidelines that can tell you how slow to
run so so look at the website and it
will lead you through that process
secondly walk breaks are huge and how
they will allow your legs to revive
themselves I recommend putting a one
minute walk break into all of your long
runs after one minute two minutes or
three minutes of running those who are
very fast runners could go as long as
three minutes before taking a walk break
if you're just beginning you don't want
to go more than one minute before taking
a walk break and some folks even will do
this in seconds they'll run for 10 to 15
seconds and then the rest of the minute
they will walk that's a good way to get
started and a lot of folks have taken
their very first running steps doing
this method and then three to six months
later they have done a half or full
marathon you can do it too I
particularly want to thank Timex
and the Warsaw Marathon organization for
their support of me and the training
program here we want folks to reach the
event injury free and this is what our
experience has been almost everybody who
follows the rules of this program stays
injury-free and feels wonderful when
they run and finally it does not have to
hurt when you get in shape so listen to
your body but also read the rules that
are on the website about pacing and walk
breaks and you can be strong all the way
to the finish in the warsaw half
marathon on March 29th see you there